in English we have this idiom the last
straw we can say it in an even less
vegan way by saying the straw that broke
the camel's back I have to start this
video with the disclaimer that the last
straw is not a particularly heavy straw
it's not a particularly bad straw it
just happens to be the problem that
happened last in a sequence of many
difficulties Joe vegan is not a
particularly bad or terrible youtuber if
anything he's one of the best and you
guys know I've supported him on this
channel I supported him back with almost
nobody knew about him I supported him an
offer to do a podcast with him back when
my audience was much larger than his and
of course his audience has grown and
grown since then another general
disclaimer I want to stay here is
something that controvert able snitch
has stated I can provide a link to
controvert oval snitch below this
channel although I think everyone who
watches my channel already knows about
him maybe I'm wrong maybe for a couple
of youths first time Carter prob snatch
is an interesting guy he has very
sincere emotional reactions to what's
going on in vegan activism the digital
vegan demi-monde and I think that's
really worthwhile a lot of my content
also is not intellectual or political
but is emotional is addressed to the
emotional reality of what we're doing
the emotional consequence of what we're
doing for the people involved the
emotional struggle to be a vegan trying
to make a difference the world lately
this guy controvert herbal snatch a
great screen name I'm not insulting him
if I call him snitch he reflected on the
extent to which being a sincere vegan
has become something that other vegans
ridicule and just recently it wasn't
like that even one year ago that people
would be ridiculed for saying that
they're actually trying to make a
positive difference that their ash
trying to help the animals and guys like
Joe vegan even if they have good
intentions they really are part of that
problem and I do think Joe vegan is is
very different from someone like vegan
cheetah I do think he's very different
with someone like during writer I do
think morally and ethically he has
scruples that many other youtubers don't
have and I think in many ways he wants
to
make a positive difference in the world
he wants to open a an animal shelter and
what have you but nevertheless um I I I
myself have really witnessed the
emotional and practical and political
impact that the games he's playing have
on me and have others again he's the
last straw it's not that he's the worst
straw but for me this was really the
breaking point where I said okay I'm not
cooperating at all anymore I'm not even
gonna have the comments that you on my
channel I'm gonna step back and really
have to reconsider how I use YouTube as
a broadcasting medium given that these
are the games that you people play so
enjoy vegans case it is significant to
me that he continued laughing at me he
continued ridiculing me and my sincerity
and I do not mean when he's playing a
fictional character I don't mean in a
scripted sketch I mean in his live
streams when he's speaking for himself
when he's sitting is an opinion he
continued to pretend that he had no way
of contacting me or no way of knowing
the facts for me and that he he really
was uncertain whether or not my legal
case in Thailand was valid or invalid
whether it was a scam or not whether it
was real or unreal and he ridiculed my
sincerity for having sent him long
emails with the fact so this is a guy
who have tried to cooperate with someone
who I'm looking to with the long-term
future build bridges with build a basis
for real activism for real political
cooperation and when I hear him saying
on the internet that he doesn't believe
something in my story is legit or true
yes in the past I have sent him long
emails that shows my sincerity of
wanting to address those facts and many
of these questions are not questions you
can write a short email about so to give
you an answer one that people used to
ask all the time and that I believe at
some point Joe vegan asked and I sent
him an email about one of the questions
the past was why was I in Chiang Mai at
that time at all chiang mai thailand why
did i go to the city of thailand at that
time at all now i can just send you a
two-sentence email saying i was in
chiang mai for totally legitimate
reasons that have nothing to do with
Vera murder I could just say that that
would be a short email and I think
nobody would believe it and well okay
it's not that people wouldn't believe it
people would ask for proof or people
will raise an eyebrow said what does
this really mean doesn't make sense
doesn't really answer the question now
by contrast the emails I've sent two
people on that and many people have
received with a different intro address
to them the same email right say hi I'm
going to answer your question and then I
cut and paste a long answer I've got to
get into why did I arrived at the time I
arrived why did I leave when I left why
did I sorry what were the actual things
I had to get done in Chiang Mai what was
I doing with my time in Chiang Mai
before during and rider attacked me and
created this conflict how short can that
email be if I actually break down for
you what was going on in my life why I
did the things I did what was going on
now on the other hand the people who
have received a long email that
naturally read it every single one of
them none of them has ever written back
to me asking for proof or saying that
they don't believe me the details are
though they're boring they really do
provide an explanation they really make
sense this is exactly why I had to go to
Chiang Mai at that time or why I chose
to rather than going to Vietnam or
something well I don't speak the
language I don't speak Vietnamese so you
know yes in theory there were other
options but you know like among the
boring details there was that I needed
to go to a hospital and get medical
documents from that Hospital to give to
the Chinese government for paperwork
reasons I have never once had someone
read my explanation of that that this is
one of the main reasons why i was in
chiang mai this song is going I've never
once that someone read that explanation
and write back to me saying well show me
the paperwork I don't believe you never
once because it's a very obviously
honest forthcoming explanation that
makes sense is it a long email yes but
it's part of me actually being very
sincere and forthcoming and ultimately I
am doing it for the animals for the
movement to make the world a better
place if someone like Joe vegan really
doesn't understand something like that I
have some level of trust with him or
some level respect from I'm going to be
forth with that and in fact I have done
that for many many channels and many
many youtubers who I don't trust who I
don't respect and you have seriously
insulted me into family on YouTube again
and again I've tried to build bridges
and reach out to people have been just
horrendously insulting into fam Atari
towards me for the movement for the
future of this thing we call begin
yes for the animals yes for ecology to
save the planet however you want to put
it that's what's going on with me that's
very sincere so if anyone in the world
should not again it's not that Joe vegan
is the worst in many ways he's the best
I made such an effort with him to
address his concerns and I was willing
to share with him private information
also not just stuff that's on youtube so
about the court case in Thailand well
ages ago a couple months ago I was
forthcoming I reminded that if him now
we have talked about this privately I
said look I showed you screenshots of
the contract with the lawyer I showed
you screenshots concerning the bank
transfers that's the money being sent to
the lawyer from the charity company like
don't act like i never showed you
anything I and he didn't even ask me for
that I was just forthcoming out of
respect for him so I've put in a huge
level of effort to communicate with him
yes in writing long emails and showing
that I was also only if he was
interested he asked for it I was willing
to show further evidence or private
proof if if he was interested okay and
he's coming on youtube and mocking me
and ridiculing me and laughing at me I
don't mean in sketches I mean in lives
what he's speaking for himself when he's
not playing a character when he's not
acting at a role and he's mocking me
specifically because I would send him
these long emails that I would send him
these explanations and he's still
behaving as f1 there's something shady
or mysterious or evasive about my
conduct in this and to as if he doesn't
have access to them as if he doesn't
already know these things as facts as if
he couldn't ask me or check with me if
you want to know and those things are
very fundamentally similar to other
people on YouTube running drama channels
or making the scene worse and worse the
final outcome of this as controvert able
sniff says it's making people defensive
it's making people ashamed to be
sincerely pursuing the goals of veganism
and it actually [ __ ] up real world
activism and organizing real events just
a couple of months ago I had the
optimism the reckless optimism to try to
commit my time and money to organizing
an event in Thailand where I would meet
other vegan activists face-to-face
including Joe vegan I wanted to invite
him oh and I did I shared it with him at
the planning stage who said look what do
I know you have a baby on the way that
time his wife
still pregnant but you know what do you
think about coming to Thailand or would
you come to it if it was somewhere other
than Thailand's at an early stage we
didn't know where we would hold this you
know can we organize an event where
these people meet face to face etc etc
today that would never happen just a
couple of months later the level of
optimism and love necessary to cooperate
with a couple of other vegans online to
accomplish a small project like that a
small goal it's now unthinkable I'm not
going to do it I'm never going to try
again I'm never going to reach out to
Joe vegan himself that way again I'm
never ever reach out to vegan cheetah
that way again I'm not going to do it um
that's been destroyed now again Joe
vegan as an example I he's not trying to
do something destructive but I've really
tried to explain to these are the
destructive outcomes of what you're
doing if you get on camera and laugh at
me because when you asked a question
that may be a valid question like why
were you really in Chiang Mai at that
time or is this legal case really happen
if you ask that question I send you long
emails i sent you haven't I show I'm
willing I'm offering to talk to you by
Skype or by email whatever you want I
don't care by telephone doesn't matter
I'm willing to talk to you and you
ignore that and you go with the fiction
that I'm somehow being evasive I'm
somehow being dishonest or not
forthcoming you depict me as if I'm the
one lying to the public and you laugh
about it you make a joke out of my
sincerity of my sincere concern well I
sincere concern that you've understood
misunderstood what I'm doing and again
my long-term interest northern things
yes it really does destroy the level of
optimism and trust necessary just to
organize an event like that now I
mentioned many people complain when I
make this kind of video oh well why
didn't you discuss it privately Joe and
I have discussed this privately and it's
a private conversation so I'm not going
to quote anything he said or you know
the nature if it is a private
conversation and now I'm making a public
statement about why comments are turned
off on my channel basically and why I'm
really changing the way i use youtube in
the way i try to instigate a real world
activism at one point in that
conversation so I'm just going to quote
what I said I'm not going to quote her
you know represent anything that joe
said but at one point in the
conversation i used what i thought was a
positive phrase I
no Joe you know you should expect more
you should expect people like me to do
more and he kind of misunderstood what I
was saying and then had to had to
reiterate and say no no no he was kind
of being he was just a little bit
confused by said it was being a little
bit overly humble because he was saying
that you know I don't expect you to do
that I don't expect you to make these
efforts he doesn't immediately as you
know you should expect more like
expecting me to organize an event in
Thailand where people wee face to face
this is nothing we should have higher
expectations should have higher hopes
and aspirations to organize real-world
events and nobody has these expectations
people just expect each other to fling
dirt and insults and defamation and
laugh and try to make a few dollars out
of it on YouTube incredible oh but you
should expect more of me and like we
should all expect more of each other as
individuals and collectively and I use
an example I've given many many examples
of very modest forms of activism that
I've tried to initiate here on YouTube
right now I have written a children's
book about veganism about the ethics of
vida I've written a children's book in
both Chinese and English I wrote in
chinese I checked with my teacher got
the Chinese Craig a translator Chinese I
would love to find an illustrator and
publish a children's book and I might
have to do a Kickstarter I might have to
do fundraising to get money for those
Travie remodel of activism I use another
example in that conversation with Joe
where I said to him I went to various
vegans with this idea of having five or
ten vegan restaurant owners meet get
together so you can call that a
conference conference would be too fancy
term but in different countries to get
together to talk about why they open the
vegan restaurant the first place and
it's about the future both their own
worries about the future running a vegan
restaurant and positively what they can
plan or pursue what outcomes they're
looking for in the future the future of
veganism from the perspective of even if
it's just five vegan restaurant owners
and for me that's especially interesting
in a place like Taiwan get a translator
have them meet in Chinese you know film
it for YouTube but then you know you're
gonna have to take segments and
translate Chinese in English it would be
especially interesting it frankly in a
place like Sri Lanka but also in Israel
if you could get together five or ten
Israeli vegan restaurant you know
Israeli people who became vegan and then
decided they're so committed they're
going to own and operate a vegan
restaurant I
think they'd be really people i have no
idea i've never been to israel i have no
connection israel i think would be
really interesting to get their
perspective on veganism in Israel or
veganism in Taiwan or veganism in Sri
Lanka to me that would be such an
amazing project and it is activism but
it's a very humble very down-to-earth
form of activism and when I've talked to
other vegans on YouTube with some of
that booking 5 restaurant owners
together from the same country I mean
you know you could do it within Canada
could be Taiwan could be Israel they act
like this is an insurmountable
impossible obstacle and a lot of these
people do put in long hard hours into
making youtube videos or doing the
social media things that they do but
something that modest getting an
illustrator for a book getting a
conference together in the past I talked
about a conference of scientists you
know involved with laboratory research
and animals who are vegan or vegetarian
ISM about the ethics of how animals are
exploited in labs you know yes actually
I'm encouraging people encouraging you
watching this video security go vegan
don't make excuses for how bad and
counterproductive the scene is here on
YouTube let's raise our expectations
expect more in effect he should expect
more of me he should expect me to be out
there organizing events related to
activism or just people meeting because
it cannot just barely activism whether
it's restaurant owners or youtubers or
whatever to make something positive
happen but what I'm trying to
communicate to him is that what he's
doing actually is destroying that
potential like it's actually a problem
for me in my real life right now and I
have and like I say the basic optimism
that was required to have what's not a
very deep or difficult event of getting
a bunch of begin youtubers to be face to
face this December today that is
completely unthinkable to me I wouldn't
make that effort today I wouldn't even
try or as I did try just a couple of
months ago and I did try to involve
someone like Joe vegan himself
positively in that effort obviously he's
got a newborn baby different people when
I reached out to them some you know some
were immediately eager and really wanted
to do it like vegan last shadow to her
like so many other people and other
people are reasons why they wanted to
keep their distance or didn't want to be
so coming back to a controvert able
snitch said in the first place we really
have a problem with shaming people for
their sincerity whether that is me
sending long emails with explanations to
someone like you know Joe vegan I
shouldn't be made ashamed of that Joe
vegan if you've said openly in your
channel that you just don't know why I
went to Chiang Mai or you just don't
know if you can trust what I say about
my legal gates and i write to you saying
look if you have doubts I'm willing to
respect your doubts I'm willing to send
you real information in either case what
I was doing there what you know my
situation is metal or I'm being
forthcoming and honest and then you are
going to pretend that I'm not that I'm
being somehow dishonest or evasive and
you're going to laugh about it you're
going to ridicule me again not in the
scripted comedy in his live stream when
he's really speaking for himself you
know shame on you and you know think
about what the rewards have been for my
sincerity because that legal case it's
not for me it's really not it doesn't
benefit me it really is as I've said on
this channel a million times it really
is about the future of veganism it
really is about violence and defamation
and dignity about this movement trying
to have a shred of dignity and a couple
of months ago I felt like the main
problem we had was a small number of
people like durianrider taking the name
and idea of veganism and dragging it
through the mud and depriving it of its
dignity and today I feel like a thousand
people are doing that including Joe
vegan and I know that Joe vegan has good
intentions I think many of these people
have good intentions whether it's to
open an animal sanctuary or other kinds
of save the planet real world activism
but yes what Joe vegan is doing in
general and even what he's done to me in
the final analysis it does have some of
the same negative consequences of what
I've complained about with Harley in the
past it is taking the name of veganism
and dragging it through the mud and it
does leave people like me in a very
difficult position of saying how am I
going to make something positive happen
so this video has been long enough I
so make a separate video about why
comments are off and how now today in a
slightly different way I am still going
to try to reach out and cooperate with
other vegans but I am changing the rules
of the games that I play